>> Evgenii Ray: Hello everyone,
and welcome to the Frontend System
Design Fundamentals Workshop.
My name is Evgenii Ray, and
I'm your workshop host today.
So before we start our workshop,
I'd like to quickly introduce myself.
So I've been working in the industry for
the last decade, and
I spent a good chunk of my career
working on complex UI apps.
So, I was working at the JetBrains for
three years, and
currently I work as
a frontend engineer at Meta.
So, when I was building this course,
I was thinking that it could be useful
to have some fundamental course that
would explain how all these libraries and
frameworks that we as a UI
specialist use every day work.
So the idea of this course is to
give you this fundamental knowledge
that you can apply in everyday job or
when you have the job interview.
So you know how every library is designed.
What are the API used for
a certain complex patterns?
And before we start, let's understand
what's the frontend system design.
So if we split the application
design into three parts,
it's a backend API and the frontend.
So to me, the frontend is about API
communication, how we communicate
with the API and how we manage
the data that we get from the server.
So it's about how we store
this data in a way that we can
utilize the device resource efficiently,
so
we don't overuse the memory
of the device and so on.
It's also about how we're handling
the complex user interactions.
So for instance, you need to display
thousands of elements on a screen,
how will you do that?
Having the limited gram or
having the small screen.
And same applies to the asset management.
So the complex apps tends to have
multiple chunks that we need to load.
So how would we load them efficiently?
So our application loads fast and all our
web vitals metrics are on the high level.
First of all start with
the core fundamentals.
So this is one of the most
important section of the course.
Because it will give you the exposure of
how browser treats the HTML elements,
how staking context is connected
to the formatting context, and
how everything is connected to the GPU.
So we're gonna look at
the browser rendering cycle.
And also,
what are the composition layers and
how can we utilize the GPU
to optimize the rendering?
So, once we finish with core fundamentals,
we're gonna look at the DOM API.
So it will be kind of a DOM API
refresher because the DOM API for
us is like a shovel.
We need to know how to work with the low
level APIs to modify the DOM tree.
So once we're done with the DOM,
we're gonna look at the Observer API.
The Observer API is a very efficient
tool to design complex patterns.
And we're gonna look using
the live-coding exercises.
How can we utilize the observer
to build such complex patterns.
The fourth section will
be very code-heavy, so
we're gonna take a look at
how virtualization works.
And we're also going to
live-code it from scratch, so
you can understand how
everything is applied together.
So once we finish with
our code-heavy part,
we'll move to application state design.
So we're gonna check how can we design the
state in a way that the search operation
is efficient,
the access operation is also efficient.
And how can we utilize the browser
storage API to offload the device memory.
Then we'll move to network section.
So we're gonna look what are the protocols
of communication available to us.
And we're also gonna take a look
what are the ways of talking to
server we have on the UI.
And I'm going to discuss a very Hollywood
topic, which is the REST/GraphQL,
and I'll provide my opinion on that.
And then we'll finish up with web
application performance, we're gonna look
at how can we optimize our JavaScript
assets, CSS assets, images, and fonts.
And the last section is kind of a bonus
section, we're going to simulate
the interview environment and try to
design the 3D like application newsfeed.
>> Student: Before we get started,
what would you say the prerequisites
of the course are?
>> Student: Things that
you should know prior to-
>> Evgenii Ray: I think it's good to know
how the browser renders the page,
how it reads the HTML,
basic networking knowledge
also would be good.
And some basic JavaScript, so
you don't need to be very proficient.
And you also need to have the latest
Chrome browser, because we're not going
to utilize any bundlers and
we're just gonna run everything natively.